Dr .SAADOUN has received his Degree in Dental Surgery from the Faculty of Paris and completed his Post-Graduate Certificate in Periodontology at the University of Pennsylvania and Post-Graduate Certificate in Implantology at University of California in Los Angeles.

He was an Associate Professor in the Department of Periodontics at the University of Southern California. He is also Visiting Professor at Loma Linda University and UCLA and also Visiting Professor at the Hadassah, Faculty of Dental Medicine of Jerusalem University.

He is a Diplomate of the American Academy of Periodonology, a Diplomate of the International Congress of Oral Implantology with a special Award of 25 years contribution for The American Board of Periodontology, a Member of Honor of the American Dental Implant.

He has received the French Medal of “Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Merite”

As internationally renowned lecturer in Esthetic Periodontology and Implantology, Dr SAADOUN has written over 150 articles and several book chapters and Special Guest Editor for 21 Issues of the Alpha Omega News in 2015 and 2 issues for the Journal of Paro Implantologie Orale in 2016.

He was recently a contributing author in the books entitled: The Art of the Smile, The Art of Treatment Planning and recently Ridge Preservation—Updates and Innovations.
He was also Associate Editor of Implant Site Development published in May 2012.
 His book on Soft Tissue Management on Teeth and Implants has been published in December 2012 and translated in Russian in August 2013 in Italian in July 2014, in Mandarin Chinese in August 2015 and Turkish in June 2016

A translation of the Book in Persian will be published in 2018

He is also on the Editorial Board of scientific journals including Practical Procedures and Aesthetic Dentistry, Implant Dentistry, Dental Implantology Update, Journal of Periodontology, European Journal of Esthetic Dentistry, Cosmetic Dentistry, European Journal of General Dentistry, Journal de Paro -Implntologie Orale and Modern Approach in Dentistry 

In addition, Dr. SAADOUN is a Faculty member of the Global Institute of Dental Education (Los Angeles) and a Faculty member of the Dental XP Program of Education (Atlanta).

Dr. SAADOUN maintains a private practice in Paris, which is limited to Esthetic Periodontics and Implant Surgery.
