Technical Diagnostic and Esthetical Approach

Great improvements have been made in the field of esthetic rastoration in the last few years.
This evolution derives not only from esthetic requirements of the patient, but also from a good relationship beetwen the dentist and the technician. 
The clinician should know technical steps to make the process easier the imagination of the technician and the laboratory should know the clinical operative steps with the possible difficulties in the mouth, so that the technician can develops more techniques to help the dentist in his work. 
In this way it is possible to plan the case that will also give to the patient the possibility to perceive and understand clearly the treatment proposed. 
Technically the numerous possibilities for anatomical tooth reproduction will be examinated.
A new system that will be enables dental professionals to go beyond the usual creative standards in esthetical rehabilitation: the principal tooth forms and their characteristics will be analysed and the discussion will lay groundwork for the introduction of a new tooth-form classification called Dental Anatomical Combination.
Comparing to the face of the patient several factors will be evaluated  when designing a dental restoration.
The application of this new system and subsequently ceramic layering procedures will be demonstrated via a clinical case report.
All the rehabilitations simple or complex are created with precision using the stereomicroscope to achieve the planned result and increasing the longevity of the restoration.
The objective of this topic is to provide  valuable  information to support the prosthodontic team in the treatment of the various clinical cases.
Detailed analysis of the most significant clinical and technical procedures will be described, beginning with the clinical diagnosis and subsequent diagnostic wax up, then progressing to the correct use of the provisional restorations,which are fundamental in the conditionning and correct developmente of the soft tissues, as well as in the achievment of the functional and esthetical objectives.    

