New Color Matching Curriculum for Dental Professionals and Students – An Overview

Course Description
Color Matching Curriculum (CMC) is a non-commercial education and training program, developed by the Society of Color and Appearance in Dentistry (SCAD, www.scadent.org). The presenter served as the editor of CMC program, co-authored by Sabiha Bunek, Stephen J. Chu, Newton Fahl, Federico Ferraris, Edward A. Mclaren, Adam J. Mieleszko, Joe C. Ontiveros, Esam Tashkandi and Aki Yoshida. This lecture is an overview of the CMC course, which is very pertinent to practice given that vast majority of dental restorations are tooth colored. The program is applicable to every dental professional, educator and student, and can facilitate the practice of dentistry. The full CMC combines didactic and hands-on portion, and it is immediately applicable in dental office. 
How good are we when it comes to shade matching? In two recently published studies (JPD, JERD), with more than 7000 shade matchings combined, barely over 50% of students matched one of THREE best matching tabs from shade guide. However, a very significant improvement (35-47%) in shade matching quality was achieved upon education and training. 
How much it cost? According to some calculations, shade matching cost is approximately $20,000 per year, while the cost of color corrections and remakes associated with shade mismatching exceeds $14,000 per year, observed for chair-side time only. This does not include the lab costs, frustration of dental professional, and patient’s disappointment and time.
The course will emphasize the essentials of a plan for successful color matching in both the dental office and the dental laboratory, with step-by-step instructions. Examples and practical suggestions will be provided, including the latest changes recommended by the presenter. 
Course Outline
Color concept and resources
Visual color matching 
Color matching instruments
How we do it
Dental Color Matcher (homework)

Objectives
UNDERSTAND color
Learn about advanced shade matching conditions and methods
Contrast dental shade guides and elaborate color-related properties of dental materials
Review the state of the art in tooth whitening monitoring
Learn about resources for color education and training in esthetic dentistry