Rade D. Paravina, DDS, MS, PhD is a tenured Professor at the University of Texas School of Dentistry at Houston and Director of Houston Center for Biomaterials and Biomimetics (HCBB). He also holds the Ralph C. Cooley, DDS Distinguished Professorship in Biomaterials, an endowment created by world-renowned heart surgeon Denton A. Cooley, MD. Dr. Paravina has authored four books including the most recent Color in Dentistry – A Clinical Guide to Predictable Esthetics (Quintessence Publishing 2017), 95 peer-reviewed articles, 138 published abstracts, two software programs, and an educational CD. His work has been shared in 109 invited presentations and 26 CE talks on all continents. His research on color and appearance has been funded by 60 contracts and grants, and has been cited 1300+ times on Scopus and 3000+ times on Google Scholar. 
Dr. Paravina designed/developed several dental products and tests. Together with Vita Zahnfabrik he designed two shade guides, Linearguide 3D Master and Bleachedguide 3D Master. The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston has executed licensing agreements with Vita Zahnfabrik dealing with commercialization of these two shade guides. He has developed Dental Color Matcher, a free online educational and training program for esthetic dentistry, and the scientific protocol for evaluating "chameleon effect" of dental materials.
Dr. Paravina is Founder and Past President of the Society for Color and Appearance in Dentistry (SCAD). He is a recipient of the 2011 E. B. Clark Award, SCAD award for lifetime achievement, and the 2014 Jerome M. and Dorothy Schweitzer Research Award of the Greater New York Academy of Prosthodontics. He is Fellow of the American Academy of Esthetic Dentistry (AAED), American Association for Dental Research (AADR), and SCAD. He serves as associate editor of the Journal of Esthetic and Restorative Dentistry, editor of its permanent bi-annual issue on color and appearance, and editorial board member for the Journal of Dentistry, Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry, Clinical Oral Investigations, Journal of Prosthodontics, and the American Journal of Dentistry.
Dr. Paravina lectures nationally and internationally on various topics associated with color and appearance in esthetic dentistry.
